CULTURE WORKS GENERAL OPERATING SUPPORT GRANT APPLICATION

ORGANIZATIONAL INTRODUCTION This section of the application is designed to
provide grant review panelists with basic information about your organization.
Remember, this is likely a panelist’s first look at your organization. Be brief,
clear and direct.

Organizational Snapshot: Imagine you cross paths with someone in your community
who is not familiar with your organization and the value you provide in the
community. This encounter could be with the CEO of a local company, or a new
community resident. What is the 30-second “elevator speech” you would share that
best describes your organization, your role in the community, and why this
person should care. (Up to 500 total characters, about 100 words.)

Activities – Past and Future: Provide a sample of your organization’s public
programming during the current season (2014-15) and explain briefly why you feel
this is a good representation of your organization’s mission. Include the
program/project title and a one-sentence description. Where applicable, provide
web links to your website, YouTube channel, etc. (Consider using bit.ly to
shorten web links and to save characters.)  (Up to 2,000 total characters, about
400 words)

Provide a sample of your organization’s public programming for the upcoming
season (2015-16) and note why you feel this is an exciting example of what
motivates your organization. Again, include the program/project title and a
one-sentence description, and provide web links where appropriate. We understand
that all upcoming programs may not yet be confirmed.  (Up to 2,000 total
characters, about 400 words)

PUBLIC BENEFIT AND ACCESS

Define the community or communities your organization serves and provides access
for. Describe the ways your organization responds to the needs/values of
identified participants? What socio-economic data, geographic location,
behaviors, attitudes, and other relevant descriptive indicators does your
organization use when thinking about and reaching out to serve new people. If
you present/produce in a variety of locations, what are your goals for doing so?
What strategies do you use to help participants connect fully with your work?
(Up to 2,000 total characters, about 400 words)

Describe one strategy your organization implemented last year to engage new
people (partners, ticket buyers, patrons, visitors, class participants, etc.).
If successful, why did this strategy work? If unsuccessful, what were the
factors that caused this strategy not to work, and in what ways will you use
what you learned to make adjustments in the future? (Up to 1,000 total
characters, about 200 words)

Tell a story that illustrates one of the most significant, successful
partnerships your organization was part of in 2014-15. Why did this partnership
work? Based on this experience, will you continue developing partnerships in
2015-16? (Up to 1,000 total characters, about 200 words)

In what ways did your organization improve or benefit the community during
2014-15? What data and knowledge have you collected about the participant’s
needs and what is important to them? In what ways will this knowledge influence
the way your organization operates and develops programming in the future? (Up
to 1,000 total characters, about 200 words)

ARTISTIC AND CULTURAL VIBRANCY

Describe how your organization developed its 2014-15 public programming. Who was
involved in the process of implementing your organization’s vision for 2014-15.
What strategies did you use to collect feedback from key constituents (ticket
buyers, board members, staff, donors, etc.)? How were final programming
decisions made? (Up to 1,000 total characters, about 200 words)

Describe one creative risk your organization took in 2014-15. What happened, and
in what ways will this experience shape future programming? (Up to 1,000 total
characters, about 200 words)

What standards do you use to measure and evaluate the artistic excellence of
programming? How do you know that your organization is keeping pace with (or
leading) in your respective field? (Up to 1,000 total characters, about 200
words)

ORGANIZATIONAL CAPACITY

Describe your 2014 organizational planning process. How do you track success and
make strategic changes as necessary? In what ways do you communicate your plans
and strategic goals to the community? (For example, website, social media,
brochure, annual meeting, etc.) Who leads and manages this process (internally,
and externally)? Who is involved in determining the annual budget to support the
plan? What is your process for ensuring sound fiscal management? (Up to 1,500
total characters, about 300 words)

Briefly describe your fundraising strategies. In what ways are diversifying
funding streams – individual donors, corporations, foundations, public support,
earned income, etc. In what ways are you tracking donor and box office data
trends to increase engagement and income? (Up to 1,000 total characters, about
200 words)

Describe your organization’s commitment to professional development of the
administrative team. Are performance reviews conducted annually? In what ways is
your staff afforded opportunities to learn and develop their skills and
knowledge in support of the organization’s vision and mission? (Up to 1,000
total characters, about 200 words)

Explain the role that volunteers (board and non-board) play in helping your
organization achieve the mission. How does your organization recruit, train,
evaluate and retain volunteers? (Up to 750 total characters, about 150 words)

In what ways are you addressing and overcoming challenges with organizational
capacity, such as staff turnover, marketing challenges, or financial/fundraising
challenges, etc. (Up to 750 total characters, about 150 words)

LOOKING FORWARD--2015 ORGANIZATIONAL GOALS:  Note: You will be asked to track
and share your progress on each of these questions in your 2015-16 year-end
report. Identify your institutional goals and outcomes and the ways you plan to
measure them in the next year as they relate to the following funding criteria.
These goals/outcomes should be easily attainable from your strategic plan.

Public Benefit and Access: These goals should be related to your program’s
impact in the community and linkage with your mission.

Primary goals: (Up to 500 total characters, about 100 words)

In what ways will you measure and demonstrate progress? (Up to 750 total
characters, about 150 words)

Artistic and Cultural Vibrancy: Creating quality, mission-driven work that
inspires and challenges the community.

Primary goals: (Up to 500 total characters, about 100 words)

In what ways will you measure and demonstrate progress? (Up to 750 total
characters, about 150 words)

Organizational Capacity: Managing for today and tomorrow.

Primary goals: (Up to 500 total characters, about 100 words)

In what ways will you measure and demonstrate progress? (Up to 750 total
characters, about 150 words)
